Title: About LeafLabs
Date: 2011-01-28 00:00
Author: Admin
Category: Uncategorized

LeafLabs was founded on the premise that science should not be confined
to expensive labs filled with shiny equipment, but found on cluttered
workbenches in musty basements everywhere. We're dedicated to making the
latest in computer science and electrical engineering accessible to all
engineers, regardless of budget or specialized training. Beginning with
our 32-bit ARM-based development board, Maple, and continuing through
Willow, a high performance computing platform that natively pairs Linux
with an FPGA, LeafLabs' products make previously costly or esoteric
technologies easy to use. We are committed to democratizing digital
design.

You can [contact us][], learn more about our open source [licensing][],
the DIY/hacker hardware [community][], or read our [blog][].

the team
--------

</p>

<div style="text-align: center; width: 100%;">
LeafLabs is comprised of recent MIT alumni and current students.

</p>

![marti][] ![aj][] ![jess][]

![drew][] ![LeafLabs logo][] ![perry][]

![hadley][] ![okie][] ![barry][]

<p>
</div>
</p>

FAQ
---

</p>

**Are you open source?**

Yes! Our software is available under the MIT/X11 license, and our
hardware schematics are all Creative Commons. At the end of the day, we
want everyone to be able make cool stuff; we're just here to help. See
our [licensing][] page for details.

**What does "open source" mean?**

Open source can mean a variety of things, but essentially it is a method
of developing and distributing software in an 'open' way. Input is
encouraged and the project source code is freely available for download
and modification. Open source generally refers to software, but it is
fair to say our boards are open source because all of the design files
are available for download online, so you can alter them to make your
dream board.

**What is "physical computing"?**

Physical computing is a field that encompasses a whole lot. At its core,
Physical Computing means building a computer that interacts with the
real world. Physical computers can be as sophisticated as ASIMO or as
simple as a monitor to tell you when to water your plants. We really dig
the idea of getting computers off of the desktop and into the wild, and
that's a major reason we started this venture.

**What is an "Arduino"?**

[Arduino][] is an Italian company that makes awesome development boards
like our own. They currently the most popular board on the market, and
for good reason; they make good boards that make doing projects fun and
easy. They were also one of the first companies to open source their
boards.

**What can I do with a LeafLabs board that I couldn't do with another
dev board?**

The answer to this question lies largely in which LeafLabs board you are
working with. Those who work with the Maple will find they can integrate
audio processing in their projects, and also increase the scale of
projects executable on the Arduino. With Oak or Willow, however, the
possibilities explode. The integrated FPGAs offer unbelievable speed-up
for many applications due to their capacity for parallelization. Signal
processing, cryptography, and machine vision are just a few of the areas
in which an FPGA will redefine the way you think about your project.

**Will libraries written for Arduino work with Maple?**

It varies depending on the library. If the library is written in C/C++
with only the Arduino extensions, and no low level direct access to AVR
registers or instructions (which seems to be true of most libraries),
then it should work on Maple. No promises, though.

**When can I get a LeafLabs board?**

LeafLabs Maple is currently on sale! Check out [the store][] for more
details.

  [contact us]: /contact/
  [licensing]: /licensing/
  [community]: /community/
  [blog]: /blog/
  [marti]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/martisdljhfpdsklfjs.jpg
    "marti"
  [aj]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/AJ4now.jpg "aj"
  [jess]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/Jess.jpg "jess"
  [drew]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/Drew3.jpg
    "drew"
  [LeafLabs logo]: http://static.leaflabs.net/img/leaflogo.png
    "LeafLabs"
  [perry]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/n707184_32123242_3056.jpg
    "perry"
  [hadley]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/hadley.jpg
    "hadley"
  [okie]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/okie-pcb-150x150.jpg
    "okie"
  [barry]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/Barry.jpg
    "barry"
  [Arduino]: http://arduino.cc
  [the store]: /store/
