Title: Distributors
Date: 2010-07-27 19:37
Author: Bnewbold
Category: Uncategorized

In addition to our [store][], you can purchase LeafLabs products through
a friendly local offical distributor.

<div class="box">
</p>

[![Seeed Depot Logo][]][]

### [Featured Distributor: SeeedStudios][![Seeed Depot Logo][]]

</p>
**China, ships internationally, *carries [Maple Mini][]!***

*"[Seeed Studio][] is based in Shenzhen, China where a vast number of
exciting and innovative products are manufactured. We offer a
comprehensive range of electrical material, ranging from capacitor to
dev. boards and many categories in- between."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![SparkFun Logo][]][]

### [SparkFun][![SparkFun Logo][]]

</p>
**US, ships internationally, *carries [Maple Mini][1]!***

*"[Sparkfun][] is an online retail store that sells the bits and pieces
to make your electronics projects possible. Whether it’s a robot that
can cook your breakfast or a GPS cat tracking device, our products and
resources are designed to make the world of electronics more accessible
to the average person."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![RobotShop Logo][]][]

### [RobotShop][![RobotShop Logo][]]

</p>

#### Canada and the US, ships internationally

</p>
*"Founded in 2003, RobotShop Distributon Inc. is proud to put robotics
at your service. We specialize in personal and professional robot
technology and offer a wide range of robotic products and services in
this sector. Our head office is located in Boisbriand, Quebec."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![Antratek Logo][]][]

### [Antratek Electronics][![Antratek Logo][]]

</p>

#### Netherlands and Belgium, ships in the EU

</p>
*Antratek is distributor of development tools and modules for
professional electronics. Over 15 years Antratek is recognized for its
innovative and affordable products, including excellent service.
Antratek does not only supply to industry, but also to educational
institutes and private persons.*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![CuteDigi Logo][]][]

### [CuteDigi][![CuteDigi Logo][]]

</p>

#### [USA, ships internationally][![CuteDigi Logo][]]

</p>
*“CuteDigi is based in Colorado, USA. We serve the open source community
by sourcing open source hardware, robot platforms, development boards,
sensors and prototyping components."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![DFRobot Logo][]][]

### [DFRobot][![DFRobot Logo][]]

</p>

#### China, ships internationally

</p>
*"DFRobot was founded on 2007 in Beijing, China. DFRobot is a
professional robot technology developer, especially in open source
hardware, mobile robot platform, robot sensors. We are now the biggest
robotics online shop in China."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![egnite Logo][]][]

### [egnite GmbH][![egnite Logo][]]

</p>

#### Germany, ships internationally

</p>
*"egnite develops and distributes hardware, software and tools for
embedded systems. Our customer base consists of companies of all sizes,
teaching and research institutes as well as hobbyists. egnite is located
in Castrop-Rauxel, Germany."*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![Lawicel Logo][]][]

### [Lawicel AB][![Lawicel Logo][]]

</p>

#### [Sweden and the EU, ships internationally][]

</p>
*"Lawicel AB is a large online distributor based out of Sweden that
specializes in embedded systems related products and they often have
good specials going on. If you are in the EU, check them out!"*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![Tenet Tech Logo][]][]

### [Tenet Tech][![Tenet Tech Logo][]]

</p>

#### India

</p>
*"Tenet Technetronics : Your Choice to Resort for quality products,
Design and Support"*

<p>
</div>
</p>

<div class="box">
</p>

[![Watterott Electronic Logo][]][]

### [Watterott Electronic][![Watterott Electronic Logo][]]

</p>

#### Germany, ships internationally

</p>
<em>"[Watterott Electronic][] is a fast growing company that is
specialized in electronics.

It was founded by Stephan Watterott in spring 2008. The company is
located in Leinefelde, Thuringia - in the green heart of Germany.</em>

<p>
</div>
</p>

* * * * *

</p>

### Become a Distributor!

</p>
We're always looking for new regional and international distributors to
reduce shipping and customs headaches for our customers. Please contact
us at [sales@leaflabs.com][] or via the contact form and we'd be happy
to send you an informational packet with bulk prices.

* * * * *

</p>

### Other, Unauthorized Sources

</p>
As of Summer 2010, we've noticed Maple rev1 boards (with the original
LeafLabs silkscreen intact) for sale on the internet from unknown
sources.

While our hardware designs are [freely available][] under an [open
license][], we don't approve of reusing the LeafLabs brand/logo without
permission, and we don't permit implying that a device was produced or
approved by LeafLabs if it was not.

We do encourage derivative projects adapting our hardware designs and
software toolchain, even for commercial purposes, as long as the terms
of our licenses are respected. For hardware, this means attributing us
as the original designer and releasing any modifications under a
compatible open license. Along the lines of our relationship with the
Arduino brand, it's fine to mention that a device is "Maple compatible"
or "based on the LeafLabs Oak" if those statements are true.

If you have any questions please [contact us][]!

(Of course it's fine to resell a real LeafLabs board over the internet,
as long as you're honest about it being used. If you're not putting it
to work, get it to someone who will!)

  [store]: /store/
  [Seeed Depot Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/seeed-logo.jpg
  [![Seeed Depot Logo][]]: http://www.seeedstudio.com/depot/leaf-maple-cortex-m3-p-670.html
  [Maple Mini]: http://www.seeedstudio.com/depot/maple-mini-p-861.html?cPath=132_137
  [Seeed Studio]: http://www.seeedstudio.com/
  [SparkFun Logo]: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/0/02/Sparkfun_logo.svg/200px-Sparkfun_logo.svg
  [![SparkFun Logo][]]: http://www.sparkfun.com/products/10664
  [1]: http://www.sparkfun.com/products/11280
  [Sparkfun]: http://www.sparkfun.com/
  [RobotShop Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/robotshop-logo.gif
  [![RobotShop Logo][]]: http://www.robotshop.com/leaflabs-maple-32-bit-arduino-compatible-microcontroller.html
  [Antratek Logo]: http://www.antratek.com/images/logo-nieuw.jpg
  [![Antratek Logo][]]: http://www.antratek.com/Maple.html
  [CuteDigi Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/cuteDigiLogo.gif
  [![CuteDigi Logo][]]: http://www.cutedigi.com/product_info.php?products_id=4514&osCsid=9643bdc067392dcd9e6e9f7ecec174bd
  [DFRobot Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/dfrobot-logo.png
  [![DFRobot Logo][]]: http://www.dfrobot.com/index.php?route=product/product&path=35_38&product_id=341
  [egnite Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/egnite-logo.png
  [![egnite Logo][]]: http://www.egnite.de/en/egnite-shop/maple/maple-rev5.html
  [Lawicel Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/lawicel-logo.jpg
  [![Lawicel Logo][]]: http://www.lawicel-shop.se/shop/
  [Sweden and the EU, ships internationally]: http://www.lawicel-shop.se/shop/custom/dept.aspx?groupid=80373&sortafter=0&sortafterchild=0
  [Tenet Tech Logo]: http://static.leaflabs.com/img/distributors/tenettech-logo.jpg
  [![Tenet Tech Logo][]]: http://tenettech.com/
  [Watterott Electronic Logo]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/logo-e1305819359235.jpg
  [![Watterott Electronic Logo][]]: http://www.watterott.com/en/Maple
  [Watterott Electronic]: http://www.watterott.com/
  [sales@leaflabs.com]: mailto:sales@leaflabs.com
  [freely available]: https://github.com/leaflabs/maple
  [open license]: /licensing/
  [contact us]: /contact/
