Title: more state of the maple
Date: 2013-02-01 17:03
Author: Jessb
Category: Uncategorized

So it would appear that LeafLabs has done a pretty bad job the past few
months of keeping everyone in the loop, and for that we definitely
apologize. So here’s a status report, and a look at what’s in the
pipeline.

First off, we want to say that **Maple and Maple Mini will be available
for the foreseeable future**. There is no intention of discontinuing
either product line; we plan to keep making and selling them as long as
people are interested in buying. So don’t panic! If you’ve got a
Maple-based project (or were planning one), you should be able to get
your hands on new boards as you need them.

The bad news is that **there are no concrete plans to expand our hobby
line at the current time**. Unfortunately, at the moment it’s just not
financially viable. We hope this will change in the near future! We’ve
been exploring some industry partnerships, and there’s also hope that
some of the other projects we’ve been working on (outside the
hobby-hardware space) will become lucrative enough to fund expansion of
Maple and related products. But nothing has solidified yet. We will try
to keep you updated as things develop.

Despite this, **we do plan on continuing to maintain Maple**, that is,
fixing bugs, accepting patches, responding to questions, and keeping you
all abreast of awesome new Maple-related projects. This hasn’t been
going so well recently, and for that we apologize. But we’re going to do
better! We’ve got lots of plans for how to do that, not the least of
which includes bringing Bryan Newbold (bnewbold from the forums) back on
board to help out. So keep your eyes peeled for a blog post with more
details in the very near future.

In the meantime, thanks for sticking with us.
