Title: Web Design in July
Date: 2009-07-13 15:00
Author: Hadley
Category: Uncategorized

Hey all-

This has been the weirdest summer so far. I've been wearing ratty
sweatshirts and jeans and wishing for sunny weather. I haven't once
cursed the summer gods for the scorching heat; I think they're all on
vacation. Ugh. If I wanted London weather I would move there.

The [only] good side to cold, moist and otherwise unpleasant weather is
all the time you aren't wasting doing frivolous things like being
outside and having fun. I've been working coming up with a few potential
designs for our website; you can get an idea of them once our new
placeholder webpage is up.

I've been attempting learn/relearn is HTML/CSS/etc. I'll be upfront: I
haven't really touched anything like this since I tricked out my
geocities site in middleschool. HTML has actually changed a bit since
then.

I was talking about this with Barry, and he and I noticed a curious
phenomenon; web design, in general, has improved in the past decade or
so, despite the increased accessibility of HTML et al. He thinks this
can be attributed to the deaths of sites like AOL Hometown [dead], Yahoo
Geocities [gone in October] and the like. I think you can thank the rise
of web design as a legitimate occupation, even industry. I mean come
on... it's one thing to put the same blinking GIF at the bottom of your
screen five times; it's another thing to have to articulate to your
designer "Now I want three sparkly hearts with glitter animation and
then below that a row of winking teddy bears-- what? OF COURSE I WANT
THEM ALL EXACTLY THE SAME! WHAT KIND OF DESIGN SCHOOL DID YOU GO TO?"

Anyways, enjoy the summer day...

![ironicGIF][]![ironicGIF][]![ironicGIF][]![ironicGIF][]![ironicGIF][]

  [ironicGIF]: http://blogs.leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/SUN10.gif
    "ironicGIF"
