Title: Forums, Maker Faire, OHS, Projects!
Date: 2010-09-13 18:35
Author: Bnewbold
Category: Uncategorized

﻿﻿﻿﻿Some time last week we broke the 1000 post mark in the forums! We've
got some amazing members dispensing advice, code, bug reports, and
spelling suggestions. Thank you so much! It's exciting and very
motivating to have an experienced set of users using our tools and
shaking out any problems. We're looking for a good way to open up our
ticketing system for bugs and feature requests to make the development
process even more transparent and open to comment.

The heat has finally broken in New England and we're looking forward to
trundling down the road to New York City in two weeks for the Open
Hardware Summit/Maker Faire NYC double ticket. We'll be in town Thursday
debating open hardware principles and practicalities at the Open
Hardware Summit, then will have a table with projects and demonstrations
at Maker Faire on Saturday and Sunday. If you're in the area or
traveling for either event drop by and say Hi, we love to chat up
internet people and would be happy to poke at some projects or debug
code!

[![][]][]

<strong>Thursday, September 23rd

New York City, World Fair Grounds in Queens

\$40 (\$25 artists + students +non-profit)</strong>

[![][1]][]

<strong>Saturday and Sunday, September 24th

New York City, Hall of Science in Queens

\$10-25/day, \$18-50/weekend</strong>

Lastly, you'll notice a new projects link at the top of the website for
a projects section. We're hoping this page will grow and include
projects written up by us and others demonstrating all the documented
and "unofficial" capabilities of our boards and will be a place people
can go to looking for practical tips and secret tricks. If you've got
something to show off involving a LeafLabs board (or anything
compatible/derived) we'd love to include; shoot us a link and brief
description [here][]!

  []: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/OHS_Logo-300x109.jpg
    "OHS_Logo-300x109"
  [![][]]: http://www.openhardwaresummit.org/
  [1]: http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/logo_newyork_2010_191x179.jpg
    "logo_newyork_2010_191x179"
  [![][1]]: http://makerfaire.com/newyork/2010/
  [here]: /contact/
