Title: LeafLabs Newsletter
Date: 2009-10-15 14:15
Author: Hadley
Category: Uncategorized

A few weeks ago I sent out the inaugural LeafLabs newsletter. For anyone
not on our mailing list, here's a copy of the text:

<div>

*Hello!*

*This is the first ever LeafLabs newsletter. We're going to take the
opportunity to sully this historical first with logistics, outlining
exactly what we hope these emails will accomplish and what
infrastructures we currently have established to help maintain a
thriving community.*

***The Newsletter***

*In the future we hope this newsletter will contain exciting monthly
updates from the actual Leaf Labs-- news regarding product releases,
software updates, new features on the website etc. We hope also that
this newsletter will be a place to highlight cool projects with Leaf
boards, developed both in house and by users.*

***The Infastructure***

*We begin our tour at the newly launched website, [leaflabs.com][]. You
may notice it looks a little sparse, but we're excited about integrating
more features as development progresses. You may want to register on our
website; currently registering allows you to sign up for our mailing
lists and little else, but in the near future you will be able to
preorder boards, participate in forums, sign up to be a beta tester,
post projects and a variety of web associated activities. LeafLabs also
has a twitter (@leaflabs) and a blog (blogs.leaflabs.com) Finally, if
you want to chat about all things Leaf (oh and we know you do), come
check out our IRC channel, \#leafblowers on irc.freenode.net.*

***Maple Release***

*The major update for this incarnation of the Leaf newsletter is the
upcoming release of Maple! On October 15th you will be able to pre-order
your boards on our website, and on Halloween they will be available via
our website and in the future, distributers like Sparkfun.com. Get
excited, we know we are.*

*So concludes your first official correspondence from LeafLabs. Was it
as good for you as it was for us?*

*Until next time,*

*The LeafLabs Team*

<p>
As an astute reader may have noticed, the pre-release date for Maple is
today!! Order your very own maple [here][]. If youâ€™d like to be added to
the newsletter, send us a line at info (at) leaflabs (dot) com or make a
request via comments.

</div>

  [leaflabs.com]: http://leaflabs.com
  [here]: http://leaflabs.com/store
