Title: Maple rev3 on Sale and In Stock Now (hooray!)
Date: 2010-05-23 00:01
Author: Poslathian
Category: Uncategorized

After far too long a wait, Maple is back on sale! You can buy it from us
[here][] for the low, low price of \$49.99.

We've spent the last few months toiling tirelessly to get Maple Rev. 3
out the door, and the day has finally arrived. This release marks
drastic redesigns of both the Maple hardware itself, as well as the
software toolchain, based on feedback from our first limited run of
boards. The most notable updates include our snazzy new low-noise
four-layer PCB design, and a new version of a bootloader that should
make it easier to get Maple up and running on a wider variety of
platforms. We've also added support for the in circuit serial
programmer, now you can install bootloader updates without any fancy
hardware. libmaple has also been completely redesigned and now includes
such goodies as hardware SPI and I2C. The IDE has been fully tested on
Windows and Linux (32 bit), and in the coming weeks we should be
bringing it up to speed on other platforms.

If you have an original board and want the new bootloader, you can get
it from our [repository][]. Of course, if you don't have the necessary
JTAG dongle you can send it back to us and well re-flash it for you!
Just get it to us and well pay to send it back.

We know you've all been waiting for Maple for a really long time, and we
can't express how much we appreciate your continued interest and support
for this project. We can't wait to see what you guys build.

Over coming days and weeks well be showing off some of things we've been
using Maple's extra clock cycles for. Perhaps there are even more of
these cycles[than we originally thought.][]

Finally I'm pleased to congratulate two members of our team for picking
up some sheepskins (degrees) and another who will be going back to
school for yet another one.

iperry takes sweet pics:

<a rel="attachment wp-att-960" href="http://leaflabs.com/2010/05/maple-r3-on-sale-and-in-stock-now-hooray/maple-r3-2-2/"><img class="alignnone size-medium wp-image-960" title="maple-r3-2" src="http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/maple-r3-21-300x200.jpg" alt="" width="300" height="200" /></a><a rel="attachment wp-att-959" href="http://leaflabs.com/2010/05/maple-r3-on-sale-and-in-stock-now-hooray/maple-r3-1-2/"><img class="alignnone size-medium wp-image-959" title="maple-r3-1" src="http://leaflabs.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/maple-r3-11-300x199.jpg" alt="" width="300" height="199" /></a>

(uhh d300 obviously, no canon here)

  [here]: http://leaflabs.com/store/
  [repository]: http://github.com/leaflabs
  [than we originally thought.]: http://forums.leaflabs.com/topic.php?id=31
