Title: That's the last of 'em!
Date: 2012-03-28 15:08
Author: jessb
Category: Uncategorized

We're now officially sold out of Maple RET6s. Thanks to everyone who
purchased one! As you may have noticed, this leaves our [store page][]
looking rather sad and empty. The reason for this is threefold.

First, as we detailed in [this post][], we're in the process of shaking
up the Maple line a bit, working on getting some new boards out the
door, phasing out others. So Maple RET6 and Maple Native in its Beta
form will no longer be available, but keep an eye out for Maple II and
Maple Native II (both featuring the [STM32 F4 line][]) in the near
future.

Second, we're just straight up running low on stock. Our apologies! We
just ordered a giant batch of Maples and Maple Minis, and we're
expecting to get those in sometime in the next three weeks, so we
appreciate your patience.

Third, we're hoping to move away from selling boards from our own store
page, and to instead deal exclusively through [our distributors][]. The
overhead of packaging and shipping so many boards is just too intensive
for a small shop like ours. Limited/initial/beta runs of boards may
still be available on our site, but for the most part distributors are
gonna be the place to go. You can definitely hit them up right away to
snag a Maple, though Mini is going to have to wait for the new shipment
to come in.

Hope that covers any questions or concerns you may have had -- leave us
a comment if there's anything we didn't cover. Thanks for reading!

  [store page]: http://leaflabs.com/store/
  [this post]: http://leaflabs.com/2012/02/state-of-the-maple/
  [STM32 F4 line]: http://www.st.com/internet/mcu/subclass/1521.jsp
  [our distributors]: http://leaflabs.com/distributors/
