Title: Thoughts on the OHS
Date: 2010-09-24 12:28
Author: bnewbold
Category: Uncategorized

The Open Hardware Summit was in New York on Thursday. There was some
blow-hard-ery, simmering free/open politics, and awkwardly delivered
monologues, but there were also some great talkers and attendees with
diverse wants and needs. I wish there had been more focused discussion
about the Open Source Hardware Definition itself (now at v0.4 with only
partial consensus), but it sounds like that discussion will spill over
through Maker Faire this weekend and in the forums online.

I like the general scope and content of the definition: it is not a
license and does not concern itself with specifics, only general
principles the entire community accepts. In general I think specific
details should be resolved in specific licenses, but there are at least
two broader issues I'd like to see discussed first.

One issue that needs some clarification is what components of hardware
are under discussion. I think that the definition should cover "devices"
which are engineered systems which may consist of sub-components which
are not themselves "open" or "free". The thing which is "open" should be
the design that can be used to construct a tangible object with new
functionality from the sub-components. For example, a device that
consists only of SparkFun breakout modules with jumper wire connections
all stuffed in a paper bag could be considered an OSHW device (even if
the SparkFun boards were not) if it introduces a functionality. This is
a slight departure from what most people are considering OSHW devices,
which are PCB circuit boards fabricated and assembled from electronic
design files roughly analogous to software source code.

A second issue, which I do not have a solution to, arises from the
promise that any person can use an OSHW device. In the case of Ham radio
systems, a government-issued license would be required to actually use
the device, so some license limitations must be allowed for. On the
other hand, a hardware device specifically intended for use with the
ZigBee wireless protocol can not be distributed for commercial purposes
without consortium membership and the payment of license fees. Something
about the former is acceptable while something about the later seems
"not open", but I am not sure how to clearly and simply distinguish
between the two cases.
